**Nigel Short MBE, Britain’s most famous chess Grandmaster takes on 25
of Lancaster’s top chess players at once**

<img width="100%" src="/news-30/3.jpg" />

Local top local chess players and rising stars of the game got the
opportunity of a lifetime on Saturday 21<sup>st</sup> June when they
played one of the UK's strongest ever players - Chess Grandmaster Nigel
Short. Nigel played 25 of them at once in a simultaneous chess game at
the Borough Hotel in Dalton Square. The event attracted a diverse set of
players ranging in age from under 12s to over 70s most of who had never
had the chance to play against a Grandmaster before.

<img width="100%" src="/news-30/1.jpg" />

Nigel earned the title of Grandmaster when he was just 19 and was ranked
third in the world just a few years later when he challenged Garry
Kasparov for the World Title. Now, having just turned 60, Nigel is still
a huge name in chess. Since 2022 he has been the Director for Chess
Development for the World Chess Federation, FIDE, and only a couple of
weeks ago played in the World Chess Teams Championships held in London.

Nigel beat 23 out of 25 with two draws. One draw was against Om Reddy
Jayar who plays for the Lancaster Chess Club A team and is the current
Lancashire Junior Chess Champion. The other one was against Richard
Walsh who is Secretary of Lancaster Chess Club.

<img width="100%" src="/news-30/2.jpg" />

Richard Walsh said “It was a pleasure to welcome such a famous chess
player to Lancaster and all the players enjoyed their games. Many had
brought copies of Nigel’s latest acclaimed chess book “Winning” and
Nigel signed copies for them. The event confirmed Lancaster as the top
location in Lancashire for competitive chess.“

Nigel’s journey began in Bolton where he started playing chess at age 5
and rapidly became a chess prodigy beating some of the world's strongest
players. He focused on chess full time from age 17. Although Nigel now
lives in Greece, he always remembers his roots in Lancashire and it was
fantastic news that he agreed to do this event.

