# Lancaster Morecambe and District Chess League - Rapidplay Sunday 26 March 2023. Venue – Lancaster Chess Club

Welcome to our second league 5 round ECF rated rapidplay event.

Prize fund subject to entries. All entry fees will be returned in prize money.

Entry cost £5 per person. Please pay in cash on the day. All entries must be registered at a club in the Lancaster, Morecambe and District Chess League and must be EFC members. As this is an internal league rapid play bronze ECF membership will be accepted without the need for the EFC surcharge.

**Time 10.30 am – 5.30 pm**

**Location** – The Lancaster Chess Club, The Bridge Club, 3-5 Chapel St, Lancaster, LA1 1NZ – only 5 minutes walk from Lancaster bus station and about 15 minutes from Lancaster rail station. There is a pay car park close by – opposite Sainsburys which is free on Sunday. 

There is only one section – First prize will be total entry fees minus £40. Grading prize under 1800 £20, Grading prize under 1500 £20 

Opening of congress – 10.15 am
All games 30 minutes per player – no time increments
Round 1 – 10.30 am
Round 2 – 12 noon 
Round 3 – 1.30 pm
Round 4 – 3 pm
Round 5 – 4.30 pm

### How to enter. 
Although it is cash on the day please enter in advance by email so we can set up sets clocks and boards and also the software we will use for pairings and submission of results for gradings to the ECF database in advance. 
Please e mail the organiser Richard Walsh, richardsami@hotmail.co.uk
In your e mail please give your name, club, grade and ECF grading database code. 

### Refreshments
There is a coffee machine but best bring your own sandwiches. The Bobbin pub is almost opposite the venue, but it does not do food. We are about 5 mins walk from city centre where there are plenty of shops which are open on Sundays. 

### CONDITIONS OF ENTRY:
The following priority is used for section allocation and seeding.
ECF RapidPlay Grade
Latest FIDE RapidPlay Rating
ECF Standard Play Grade

Players without a current grade should use any grading previously held from the on-line ECF database and provide reference number from the site. This will be accepted as their grading subject to approval by the organisers.

Ungraded players are not eligible for a grading prize.

A player qualifying for two prizes receives only the higher of the two prizes.
In the event of a tie for a grading prize, the prize is awarded to the lowest graded player

Swiss manager dictates the pairings in all rounds and they are not changed to suit individual preferences.

### Arbitration 
In the event of a dispute we would expect players to sort it out between themselves. However is this is not possible the game will paused until two officials are available from two clubs. They will then act in arbiter role and their decision will be final. In entering players are deemed to agree with this. 
