# Third Lancaster Rapid Play Congress Sunday 18 February 2024 – Prize Fund £1,000 (subject to entries)
Contact: Richard Walsh, Email –
[richardsami@hotmail.co.uk](mailto:richardsami@hotmail.co.uk)

## Sections, prizes and timings
- Open – First £150, second £50. Grading prize £50 U2100
- Major - U1900 First £150, second £50. Grading prize £50 U1800
- Intermediate – U1750 First £150, second £50, Grading prize £50 U1620
- Minor First U1500 £150, second £50. Grading prize £50 U1300
- Those without an ECF or FIDE rating can win a maximum of £50 except in the Open and are not eligible for grading prizes

## Schedule
- 6 rounds. ECF rated
- 20 minutes each plus 10 second increments
- Opening of congress – 9.45 am
- Round 1 – 10 am
- Round 2 – 11.15
- Round 3 – 12.30
- Round 4 – 14.00
- Round 5 – 15.15
- Round 6 – 16.30
- Prizes and close 17.30

FIDE rapid play rules on time penalties for illegal moves etc will apply. Capacity up to 110 entrants. Arbiter decisions are final and by entering this congress you will be bound by this.

- Chief Arbiter – Keith Freshwater
- Assistant Arbiter – Marcus Fung

## How to enter
Entry cost £20 per person for platinum, gold and silver ECF members + £9 ECF fee for bronze or non ECF members. Bank transfer entry only.
Entries received after 14 February, if accepted, will require £5 late entry fee. Entries are not accepted on the day.
Please pay £20 or £29 by direct transfer to the Lancaster Chess Club Account (plus late entry fee if appropriate).

- sort code 40-03-33
- account number 82357054

**Include your initials and surname as reference number so we can match your payment to your entry.**
At or before payment, please send your grading details in an email to the Congress Organiser, Richard Walsh [richardsami@hotmail.co.uk](mailto:richardsami@hotmail.co.uk). 

Go to the ECF database ecfrating.org.uk and find your details. Click on your ECF Code to do this. Forward a link to your details to [richardsami@hotmail.co.uk](mailto:richardsami@hotmail.co.uk) together with which section you wish to enter (open, major, intermediate or minor) and your name and rating. Use the priority list below to determine your grade. If you do not have a grade contact Richard Walsh who will discuss with the Chief Arbiter which section would be appropriate for you to enter.

The following priority is used for section allocation and seeding.

- ECF Rapid Play Grade
- FIDE Rapid Play Rating
- ECF Standard Play Grade
- FIDE Standard Play Grade
- Chess.com or Lichess at the organisers discretion

Eligibility for grade-restricted sections is determined by the date of entry or the ECF February grading list. Application of this rule has allowed several players to move to a lower section in the past. Grading prizes and pairings will be decided using the ECF February grading list.
Entries so far can be found by clicking on this link to chess results.

[https://chess-results.com/tnr836231.aspx?lan=1&turdet=NO](https://chess-results.com/tnr836231.aspx?lan=1&turdet=NO)

There will be a chess stall in the analysis room selling books etc.

## Small Print

A player qualifying for two prizes receives only the higher of the two prizes. Prize money is subject to change depending on number of entrants.
In the event of a tie for grading prize, the prize is awarded to the lowest graded player.
Swiss manager dictates the pairings in all rounds and they are not changed to suit individual preferences.
Cancellations – in the event that a player is unable to attend there will be no refund if the withdrawal is made after 1 January 2024, but please let the organiser know so pairings can be rearranged.
A half point bye may only be taken in round 1. If you wish to take this up please let the congress organiser know when you enter. 

## Parking

You can park on the main car park next to the Alexandra building. 3 mins walk to Sentamu building. No permits are needed. 
The venue is Disability Friendly.

## Refreshments

There is a coffee/tea vending machine (card only). Currently you are advised to bring your own food. We are looking at bringing in a contract caterer – check website nearer the time for updates. Please take any rubbish away with you.

## How to find us:

### By road:
From the north leave the M6 at junction 34 and follow signs to the city centre. Travel south, keeping in the left lane of the one-way system. Just past the Royal Lancaster Infirmary (on the right), take the first exit at the large roundabout onto Bowerham Road. The entrance to the campus is 300 yards on the left, opposite Bowerham Primary School. From the south leave the M6 at junction 33 and follow the A6 into Lancaster. At the first roundabout, take the third exit onto Bowerham Road. The entrance to the campus is 300 yards on the left, opposite Bowerham Primary School.

### By rail:
Lancaster is on the main west coast rail line from London to Glasgow. The campus is a 30-minute walk or short taxi ride away. A taxi from the station will take around five minutes and cost around £5. Alternatively there is a half hourly 100 bus from Common Garden St. Get off at Park Hotel stop and follow footpath to the campus.
Walking from the station · Leave the station passing the main ticket office and via the station slip road and left onto · Meeting House Ln. Continue to the traffic lights at the bottom of the hill and · Turn right onto King St/A6. continue straight ahead, against the flow of road traffic · At the canal bridge traffic lights, continue straight ahead, remaining on A6 · At the roundabout, take the 1st exit onto Bowerham Rd · The entrance to the campus is 300 yards on the left. There is a pedestrian footpath just by the Park Hotel bus stop.

