# Lancaster Standard Play Congress 9 – 11 August 2024

Contact: Richard Walsh, Congress Director Email
– [<u>richardsami@hotmail.co.uk</u>](mailto:richardsami@hotmail.co.uk)

Welcome to our 5 round ECF rated standard play event. **The Open and
Major will also be FIDE rated and games uploaded onto national public
databases**. We have increased capacity to over 120 entrants. On-line
entry only.

In addition we will be running a 7 round open blitz event on Saturday
evening. This event is only open to those playing in the rest of the
congress and is optional. There will be a chess stall in the analysis
room selling books etc.

Prize fund (excluding blitz) £2000 subject to entries plus an additional
prize for best score by Lancaster/Morecambe based under 16 year old
junior sponsored by Cumbria Building Society, Lancaster Branch. This is
a not for profit event. Donations are welcome.

## Sections and prizes

-   Open – First £300, second £150. Grading prize £50 U2100.

-   Major - U1900 First £300, second £150. Grading prize £50 U1800

-   Intermediate – U1750 First £300, second £150, Grading prize £50
    U1620

-   Minor First U1500 £300, second £150. Grading prize £50 U1200

-   Special prize for best score in any section by an under 16 year old
    junior (on 9 August 2024) resident in Lancaster/Morecambe area - £50
    cash plus 6 hours of 1:1 coaching with Gediminas Sarakauskas IM.
    Sponsored by Cumberland Building Society Lancaster Branch.

-   Blitz - Entry will be open on Saturday between rounds 2 and 3. £10
    cash entry – all entry fees returned in prizes – for winner, runner
    up and three grading prizes of £40 for U1900, U1750, U1500 - ie the
    winner and runner up gets all entry money minus £120 (winner
    receives 75% runner up 25%). Prizes subject to number of entrants.
    Maximum number of entrants – 60. The blitz will be ECF rated.

Opening of congress – 17.45 pm Friday

All standard play games 110 minutes per player – plus 10 seconds per
move time increments. Normal FIDE rules time penalties for illegal moves
etc will apply

Blitz – 7 rounds – 3 minutes with 2 second increment. No time penalties.
First illegal move or using two hands for moving piece and hitting clock
will result in a warning. A repeat warning will result in
default. **Entries only accepted on Saturday.**

-   Round 1 – Friday – 18.00 pm

-   Round 2 – Saturday - 9.30 am

-   Round 3 – Saturday - 14.30 pm

-   Blitz – Saturday - 19.45 pm to approx. 22.00 finish

-   Round 4 – Sunday – 9.30 am

-   Round 5 – Sunday - 14.30 pm

Prize announcements and close 6 - 7 pm Sunday

-   Chief Arbiter – Keith Freshwater

-   Assistant Arbiter – Marcus Fung

Contact details for queries: Richard
Walsh, [<u>richardsami@hotmail.co.uk</u>](mailto:richardsami@hotmail.co.uk)

## Entry

**Entry costs:**

-   ECF Gold or Platinum members £40

-   ECF Silver members:

    -   Open and Major - **£12.00 fee will be applied to upgrade your
        membership to Gold/Junior Gold for the remainder of your
        membership year – ie £52. We suggest you upgrade to gold before
        you enter.**

    -   Intermediate and minor - £40

-   FIDE registered players not affiliated to ENG who are not gold
    members entering Open or Major - £42

-   Bronze or non-ECF members:

    -   Open and Major - £52

    -   Intermediate and Minor - £49

-   Entries received after 6 August, if accepted, will require a £5 late
    entry fee.

Entries so far can be found by clicking on this link.  
  
[https://chess-results.com/Tnr928626.aspx?lan=1](https://emea01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fchess-results.com%2FTnr928626.aspx%3Flan%3D1&data=05%7C02%7C%7C479761488ed3456c9e1708dc62e585c8%7C84df9e7fe9f640afb435aaaaaaaaaaaa%7C1%7C0%7C638493985134491884%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=jr4cpa9GF%2FMWWDQrC%2FoUvrNY7KTqtTPVqDxWXd5I2Cs%3D&reserved=0)

Note it may take a day or two before your entry is loaded.

**How to enter:**

Please pay entry fee by direct transfer to the Lancaster Chess Club
Account (plus late entry fee if appropriate).

-   sort code 40-03-33

-   account number 82357054

Include your initials and surname as a reference so we can match your
payment to your entry.

**After payment, please send the following in an email to Richard
Walsh** [<u>richardsami@hotmail.co.uk</u>](mailto:richardsami@hotmail.co.uk):

**ECF Graded players**

Go to the ECF database ecfrating.org.uk and find your details. Click on
your ECF Code. Forward a link to this
to [<u>richardsami@hotmail.co.uk</u>](mailto:richardsami@hotmail.co.uk) together
with which section you wish to enter (open, major, intermediate or
minor) and your name and rating. Use the priority list below to
determine your grade.

Note – if you do not do this you will be treated as an ungraded player
unless we can track your details in some other way.

If you would like to take a half point bye please let Richard know in
your entry e-mail and say which round you would like the bye.

Entrants eligible for the special junior prize should include their date
of birth and address.

**Ungraded players**

Please
email [<u>richardsami@hotmail.co.uk</u>](mailto:richardsami@hotmail.co.uk) the
following information:

-   First Name

-   Second Name

-   Sex

-   Date of Birth

-   Club if any

-   Screen shots of chess.com and lichess ratings charts

## Location of Congress

**The Assembly Hall, Lancaster Royal Grammar School, East Road,
Lancaster, LA1 3EF.** One large playing room, analysis rooms and access
to cafeteria opposite. Meals will be available on Saturday and Sunday
lunchtimes. Dedicated car park almost opposite with same post code – via
Lee House entrance. The Assembly Hall has disabled access and the
playing area is on the ground floor.

## Accommodation

Cumbria University, Bowerham, Lancaster LA1 Cumbria University has made
available well priced student on-site campus accommodation – £35/night –
two nights minimum stay - see link for how to book. Note as this is
student accommodation it is basic so please bring your own toiletries.
It is 15 minutes walk from the Grammar School. Free parking in visitors
car park close to accommodation. Check in after 1 pm on Friday. Check
out any time on Sunday.

[https://store.cumbria.ac.uk/product-catalogue/general/conferences-events/accommodation-for-lancaster-standard-play-chess-congress-august-2024](https://emea01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fstore.cumbria.ac.uk%2Fproduct-catalogue%2Fgeneral%2Fconferences-events%2Faccommodation-for-lancaster-standard-play-chess-congress-august-2024&data=05%7C02%7C%7Ccdb6dfc617954a4c250608dc3e8b67ee%7C84df9e7fe9f640afb435aaaaaaaaaaaa%7C1%7C0%7C638454015696574356%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=G%2BeQBtnG2AEtA%2BPFLB72RvHcSD8lcodxuue7yBoKOZw%3D&reserved=0)

As there is limited availability early booking is recommended. There are
also a very small number on en-suite rooms at a slightly higher price.
If you would like one of these please contact Pilar direct – her contact
details are shown in the link.

## Small print

Eligibility for grade-restricted sections is determined by the published
ECF August grading list. This means that which section you enter may be
changed by the organisers if your grade changes between the date of
entry and the release of the August ratings. Players’ ECF ratings from
the August 2024 list will be used for determining allocation to
sections, tournament pairings, and best performance prizes.

All sections are ECF graded. The Open and Major are FIDE rated. The
following priority is used for section allocation and seeding in the
Standard Play event.

-   ECF Standard Play Grade

-   FIDE Standard Play Rating

-   ECF Rapid Play Grade

-   FIDE Rapid Play Grade

The priority to be used for the seeding in the Blitz and for grading
prizes will be:

-   ECF Blitz Grade

-   FIDE Blitz Grade

-   ECF Rapid Play Grade

-   FIDE Rapid Play Grade

-   ECF Standard Play Grade

-   FIDE Standard Play Grade

Players without a current grade should use any grading previously held
from the on-line ECF database and provide the link from the site. This
will be accepted as their grading subject to approval by the organisers.

Ungraded players are not eligible for a grading prize.

Ungraded players can only win up to £50 for the major, intermediate or
minor events. Any unallocated prize money in either event will be
allocated to the runner up assuming they are graded.

A player qualifying for two prizes receives only the higher of the two
prizes. The exception is the special junior prize which is not included
in this rule. Prize money is subject to change depending on number of
entrants.

In the event of a tie for grading prize, the prize is awarded to the
lowest graded player.

Swiss manager dictates the pairings in all rounds and they are not
changed to suit individual preferences.

Cancellations – in the event that a player is unable to attend there
will be no refund for cancellations after 30 June but please let the
organiser know so pairings can be rearranged.

Byes – entrants may take one half point bye in rounds 1-4. The bye may
not be taken in the last round.

FIDE rated sections will use duplicate score sheets. Both players must
give the top copies to the organisers and sign each of them to confirm
the result. The top copies remain the property of the congress.

Cars parked at the venue or the accommodation are done so entirely at
the owners own risk.

**BY ENTERING, PLAYERS AGREE THAT IN THE EVENT OF ANY DISPUTE, THE
ARBITER’S DECISION IS FINAL.**

## How to find the venue

**By car:**

**From the North**

Leave M6 at J34. Turn onto the A683 and travel towards Lancaster for 1.5
miles joining the one-way system at the traffic lights. Choose the left
hand lane and continue for approximately half a mile. Filter left at
Dalton Square (statue of Queen Victoria) signed Clitheroe. Go straight
on through traffic lights, passing the Cathedral on the right. Continue
up the hill, over the crossroads. Continue onto East road. There will be
limited parking at Lee house on your left just before you come to the
next intersection. The assembly hall (playing venue) is on your right.

**From the South**

Leave the M6 at J33. Travel towards Lancaster on the A6 North for
approximately 3.5 miles. Make a slight right onto Barton Road just past
the Booths supermarket on your right, and continue on as it turns into
Bowerham road. Take the second exit at the roundabout on to Coulston
road. Stay left at the junction with Wyresdale road. Continue on
Wyresdale road until you come to the crossroads. Turn left onto East
road. There will be limited parking at Lee house on your right. The
assembly hall (playing venue) is on your left.

**By rail:**

Lancaster is on the main west coast rail line from London to Glasgow. A
taxi from the station will take around five minutes and cost around £5.
There are no buses there from the station.

**By foot from the station:**

Walking from the station · Leave the station passing the main ticket
office and via the station slip road and left onto Meeting House Ln.
Continue to the traffic lights at the bottom of the hill. Cross over and
turn right onto King St/A6. continue straight ahead, against the flow of
road traffic. Turn left at Common Garden St and walk past the bus stops.
Keep straight on to traffic lights and cross over to the town hall side
of Dalton Square. Keep straight on past the town hall. Keep going
straight on up the hill and you will reach the assembly hall which is on
the right hand side. It is a 10 minute walk from the town hall but quite
a steep hill.

## How to find the accommodation

**By road:**

From the north leave the M6 at junction 34 and follow signs to the city
centre. Travel south, keeping in the left lane of the one-way system.
Just past the Royal Lancaster Infirmary (on the right), take the first
exit at the large roundabout onto Bowerham Road. The entrance to the
campus is 300 yards on the left, opposite Bowerham Primary School. From
the south leave the M6 at junction 33 and follow the A6 into Lancaster.
At the first roundabout, take the third exit onto Bowerham Road. The
entrance to the campus is 300 yards on the left, opposite Bowerham
Primary School.

**By rail:**

Lancaster is on the main west coast rail line from London to Glasgow.
The campus is a 30-minute walk or short taxi ride away. A taxi from the
station will take around five minutes and cost around £5. Alternatively
there are regular buses from Common Garden St – 100 or 4. Get off at
Park Hotel stop and follow footpath to the campus.

**By foot:**

Walking from the station · Leave the station passing the main ticket
office and via the station slip road and left onto · Meeting House Ln.
Continue to the traffic lights at the bottom of the hill and · Turn
right onto King St/A6. continue straight ahead, against the flow of road
traffic · At the canal bridge traffic lights, continue straight ahead,
remaining on A6 · At the roundabout, take the 1st exit onto Bowerham Rd
· The entrance to the campus is 300 yards on the left. There is a
pedestrian footpath just by the Park Hotel bus stop.

## How to get from the accommodation to the venue

**By foot**

Go to visitors car park. Follow path up to the sports centre complex. Go
past the sports centre up the path and you will face the gates to
Williamson Park. Remember this point for your walk back. Turn left down
Wyresdale road. Carry on downwards and keep left on East Road and the
assembly hall is on your left.

**By car**

Leave the campus and turn left up Bowerham Road. Turn left at Coulston
Road. Turn left at the junction with Wyresdale Rd. Continue on Wyresdale
road until you come to the crossroads. Turn left onto East road. The
assembly hall is on your left, and the entrance to limited parking at
Lee house will be on your right.
