<section><img src="/bid.jpg" alt="Bid Logo" style="max-width: 150px; margin-right: 10px;"></section>

**Third Lancaster Standard Play Congress 15 -- 17 August 2025 - £2,600
in Prizes**

Contact: Richard Walsh, Congress Director Email
-- [[richardsami@hotmail.co.uk]{.underline}](mailto:richardsami@hotmail.co.uk)

Welcome to our 5 round ECF rated standard play event. Last year we
experimented by making the Open and Major sections also FIDE rated. This
proved extremely popular. **This year the entire congress will be FIDE
and ECF rated. As last year the Open and Major section games will be
uploaded onto public databases.**

We are pleased to say that we are back where we started - at The Storey
which is in the heart of the city. For international visitors why not
make a nice holiday out of it. Lancaster is a historic city and also
close to the English Lake District. The venue is opposite the Castle.
Follow this link to Lancaster attractions and we hope to offer discounts
during the congress.
[https://lancasterbid.org/love-lancaster/](https://emea01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Flancasterbid.org%2Flove-lancaster%2F&data=05%7C02%7C%7C5a3f9de195564656b24808dd88bf5910%7C84df9e7fe9f640afb435aaaaaaaaaaaa%7C1%7C0%7C638817077581533780%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJFbXB0eU1hcGkiOnRydWUsIlYiOiIwLjAuMDAwMCIsIlAiOiJXaW4zMiIsIkFOIjoiTWFpbCIsIldUIjoyfQ%3D%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=Nq6A2JHEHhiwc986ZKJg15gNSY%2F8Cl172kcKgKQCj4c%3D&reserved=0)
. We are very grateful to Lancaster BID for sponsoring our congress.

**As the event is FIDE rated all entrants must have a FIDE ID and as
such must be ECF gold or above members or have a FIDE ID from outside
England and an up to date registration with their own national chess
association/federation. FIDE ID comes free with ECF gold membership. If
you are a gold member and do not have a FIDE ID then we will need your
date of birth to get you one. Junior gold ECF membership is free for the
first year.**

The advantages of having a FIDE ID and rating are that you can play in
any FIDE rated event in the world -- handy for holidays!

**Our capacity is 120 entrants. Once it's full it's full.** On-line
entry only.

We hope there will be a chess stall in the analysis room selling books
etc.

Prize fund £2600 subject to entries plus additional prizes subject to
sponsorship. This is a not for profit event. Donations are welcome.

Food and drink will be on sale in the licenced café area downstairs from
9 am to 6pm on Saturday and 10 am to 3 pm on Sunday. During this time
only food and drink purchased on the premises is allowed.

**Sections and prizes**

- Open -- First £700, second £250, third £100. Grading prize £50 U2100.

- Major - U1900 First £300, second £150. Grading prize £50 U1800

- Intermediate -- U1750 First £300, second £150, Grading prize £50 U1620

- Minor First U1500 £300, second £150. Grading prize £50 U1200

Opening of congress -- 17.45 pm Friday

All standard play games 110 minutes per player -- plus 10 seconds per
move time increments. FIDE rules time penalties for illegal moves etc
will apply

- Round 1 -- Friday -- 18.00 pm

- Round 2 -- Saturday - 9.30 am

- Round 3 -- Saturday - 14.30 pm

- Round 4 -- Sunday -- 9.30 am

- Round 5 -- Sunday - 14.30 pm

Prize announcements and close 6 - 7 pm Sunday

- Chief Arbiter -- Hambel Willow -- FIDE and ECF qualified.

- Assistant Arbiter -- Damian McCarthy -- ECF qualified

Contact details for queries: Richard
Walsh, [[richardsami@hotmail.co.uk]{.underline}](mailto:richardsami@hotmail.co.uk)

**Entry**

**Entry costs:**

- ECF Gold or Platinum members affiliated to England - £40

- FIDE registered players not affiliated to England - £42 (the extra £2
  is to cover the ECF costs of adding their results to their national
  FIDE ID account)

- Entries received after 12 August, if accepted, will require a £5 late
  entry fee. **You are strongly advised to check that there are
  available spaces for late entries before entering late to avoid
  disappointment.**

Entries so far can be found by clicking on this link.

[Chess-Results Server Chess-results.com - Lancaster Congress
2025](https://emea01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fchess-results.com%2Ftnr1172112.aspx%3Flan%3D1&data=05%7C02%7C%7Cbedab25b65d64ddb4bc508dd8aedc35f%7C84df9e7fe9f640afb435aaaaaaaaaaaa%7C1%7C0%7C638819475957318114%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJFbXB0eU1hcGkiOnRydWUsIlYiOiIwLjAuMDAwMCIsIlAiOiJXaW4zMiIsIkFOIjoiTWFpbCIsIldUIjoyfQ%3D%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=IRXYgN5rV5PQMo0ARndNGngl2QQ3lGc%2BbQPrC3FCX%2FM%3D&reserved=0)

Note it may take a few days before your entry is loaded.

**How to enter -- UK bank account holders:**

Please pay entry fee by direct transfer to the Lancaster Chess Club
Account (plus late entry fee if appropriate).

- sort code 40-03-33

- account number 82357054

Include your initials and surname as a reference so we can match your
payment to your entry.

**How to enter -- non-UK bank account holders:**

**Payment of entry fees for those with bank accounts outside the UK
should ensure that their £42 entry fee arrives as £42 GBP after
deduction of all bank charges. You will need the following information
to give to your bank to make the transfer:**

Name of bank -- HSBC

Address of bank -- 1 Centenary Square, Birmingham B1 1HQ

Address of account associated with HSBC bank - The Treasurer\
Lancaster Chess Club\
Flat 34, Sir John Lyon House\
8 High Timber Street\
London EC4V 3PA

IBAN number - GB37HBUK40033382357054

SWIFT/BIC code - HBUKGB4141B

Include your initials and surname as a reference so we can match your
payment to your entry.

**After payment, please send the following in an email to Richard
Walsh** [[richardsami@hotmail.co.uk]{.underline}](mailto:richardsami@hotmail.co.uk):

**ECF Graded players**

Go to the ECF database ecfrating.org.uk and find your details. Click on
your ECF Code. Forward a link to this
to [[richardsami@hotmail.co.uk]{.underline}](mailto:richardsami@hotmail.co.uk) together
with which section you wish to enter (open, major, intermediate or
minor) and your name and rating. Use the priority list below to
determine your grade.

Note -- if you do not do this you will be treated as an ungraded player
unless we can track your details in some other way.

If you would like to take a half point bye please let Richard know in
your entry e-mail and say which round you would like the bye -- byes are
not allowed in round 5.

Entrants who are ECF gold or above members who do not have a FIDE ID
should provide their date of birth and the country they wish to be FIDE
registered with. If we do not hear otherwise we will assume England.

**FIDE Graded players who are registered outside England**

Entrants from outside England should provide their FIDE ID -- ideally
with a link to it.

**Ungraded players**

Please
email [[richardsami@hotmail.co.uk]{.underline}](mailto:richardsami@hotmail.co.uk) the
following information:

- First Name

- Second Name

- Sex

- Date of Birth

- Club if any

- Screen shots of chess.com and lichess ratings charts

- Link to ECF Membership code on the ECF grading database or FIDE ID

**Location of Congress**

Location -- The Storey, Meeting House Lane, LA1 1TH -- only 5 minutes
walk from Lancaster station -- on left hand side as you walk towards
town centre. Parking facilities are not available at The Storey. Pay for
parking spaces are available in the city. The venue itself is Disability
Friendly.

**Accommodation**

**Basic**

Cumbria University, Bowerham, Lancaster LA1 3JD Cumbria University has
made available well priced student on-site campus accommodation --
£40/night -- two nights minimum stay - see link for how to book. Note as
this is student accommodation it is basic so please bring your own
toiletries. Free parking in visitors car park close to accommodation
after 6 pm -- before that you will need to get a pay for a permit at the
reception area. Check in after 1 pm on Friday. Check out any time on
Sunday. If reception is not open go to the security room by the library.
There are regular bus services (number 100) to and from Common Garden St
stop which is 5 mins walk from The Storey.

As there is limited availability early booking is recommended. There are
also a very small number on en-suite rooms at a slightly higher price.
If you would like one of these please contact Pilar direct -- her
contact details and all booking details are shown in this link.

[https://store.cumbria.ac.uk/product-catalogue/general/accommodation-venueroom-hire/accommodation-lancaster-chess-congress-15th-to-17th-august-2025](https://emea01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fstore.cumbria.ac.uk%2Fproduct-catalogue%2Fgeneral%2Faccommodation-venueroom-hire%2Faccommodation-lancaster-chess-congress-15th-to-17th-august-2025&data=05%7C02%7C%7C248e473e228b4162914008dd87c82f94%7C84df9e7fe9f640afb435aaaaaaaaaaaa%7C1%7C0%7C638816016538404345%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJFbXB0eU1hcGkiOnRydWUsIlYiOiIwLjAuMDAwMCIsIlAiOiJXaW4zMiIsIkFOIjoiTWFpbCIsIldUIjoyfQ%3D%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=Pju1VPCj%2B7X0Hxcu2uBiWLfg%2BU7irsvieFaLIta7HEQ%3D&reserved=0)

**Hotels and self catering**

We have obtained discounts on the following accommodation:

- **15% discount from Sleep Inn Group** who manage the Crows Nest, Sun
  Street Studios and a couple of serviced apartments in the centre of
  Lancaster. To get the discount you should quote: SIG-Chess2025. For
  availability, please
  visit [https://link.edgepilot.com/s/19dd2981/VocwTi1_bk_PXfhpkokU6w?u=http://www.sleepinngroup.co.uk/](https://emea01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Flink.edgepilot.com%2Fs%2F19dd2981%2FVocwTi1_bk_PXfhpkokU6w%3Fu%3Dhttp%3A%2F%2Fwww.sleepinngroup.co.uk%2F&data=05%7C02%7C%7Ca8339771c0404440329c08dd8c777740%7C84df9e7fe9f640afb435aaaaaaaaaaaa%7C1%7C0%7C638821166924305349%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJFbXB0eU1hcGkiOnRydWUsIlYiOiIwLjAuMDAwMCIsIlAiOiJXaW4zMiIsIkFOIjoiTWFpbCIsIldUIjoyfQ%3D%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=mD9NEy6yum%2F169AIVVdmqh7AvCUOoT0bKw2aLxlntJg%3D&reserved=0)
  For the discount on the online prices, please contact them
  on <info@sleepinngroup.co.uk> . Contact phone number 01524 382888.

- **Royal Kings Arms Hotel -- Lancaster and right opposite the venue
  [https://royalkingsarmshotel.uk/](https://emea01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Froyalkingsarmshotel.uk%2F&data=05%7C02%7C%7C884bcc9b1dae407a86ec08dd8d51a074%7C84df9e7fe9f640afb435aaaaaaaaaaaa%7C1%7C0%7C638822103890186093%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJFbXB0eU1hcGkiOnRydWUsIlYiOiIwLjAuMDAwMCIsIlAiOiJXaW4zMiIsIkFOIjoiTWFpbCIsIldUIjoyfQ%3D%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=gfjQDZAHD8IcMgiLaCgE0Ovz8fAUwpP1nhHL%2B6pJNTo%3D&reserved=0)**
  are happy to offer discounts to entrants along with their families.
  They have created a code (CLUB15) that you can use to get a 15%
  discount. Residents at the hotel will be able to use the gym there at
  no extra cost. All you need to do is to enter the code CLUB15 which
  should automatically deduct a 15%discount. Bookings can be done via
  their website (on the top right corner when searching for rooms, there
  is a promotion plus sign and that is where you must enter CLUB15 to
  get the discount). Alternatively, you can call the hotel directly and
  let the reception team know that they are attending the event and
  would like the 15% discount applied. They have also extended the offer
  to stretch from start of that week leading to 15^th^ and leading on 7
  days after the 17^th^ in case some entrants wish to take advantage to
  visit different parts of Lancaster and see what the whole area has in
  store.

- **Toll House Inn**
  -- [https://www.tollhouseinn.co.uk/](https://emea01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.tollhouseinn.co.uk%2F&data=05%7C02%7C%7C68269a984c0f4f4d7dce08dd88af8cc4%7C84df9e7fe9f640afb435aaaaaaaaaaaa%7C1%7C0%7C638817009745957530%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJFbXB0eU1hcGkiOnRydWUsIlYiOiIwLjAuMDAwMCIsIlAiOiJXaW4zMiIsIkFOIjoiTWFpbCIsIldUIjoyfQ%3D%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=QOtQ%2BQUGb%2FcW6F6BXcWWulimNQqeEdRIa8MyILOz1SY%3D&reserved=0)
  . 10% discount -- only obtainable by phone - 01524 599900

There are also many other hotels in the Lancaster and we are looking to
see if we can get additional discounts. If this happens we will update
with information. Here is a list of them with direct links -- booking
via these will most likely be cheaper than through portals like
booking.com as hotels don't have to pay their charges.

Royal Hotel & Bar
-- [https://theroyalhotelandbar.co.uk/](https://emea01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Ftheroyalhotelandbar.co.uk%2F&data=05%7C02%7C%7C68269a984c0f4f4d7dce08dd88af8cc4%7C84df9e7fe9f640afb435aaaaaaaaaaaa%7C1%7C0%7C638817009745970680%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJFbXB0eU1hcGkiOnRydWUsIlYiOiIwLjAuMDAwMCIsIlAiOiJXaW4zMiIsIkFOIjoiTWFpbCIsIldUIjoyfQ%3D%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=EoQkF2TqZZa7LnMClJhMgu7as%2B9E13r%2FwSkPWEYh8tI%3D&reserved=0)

The Sun Hotel and Bar
-- [https://www.thesunhotelandbar.co.uk/](https://emea01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.thesunhotelandbar.co.uk%2F&data=05%7C02%7C%7C68269a984c0f4f4d7dce08dd88af8cc4%7C84df9e7fe9f640afb435aaaaaaaaaaaa%7C1%7C0%7C638817009746153651%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJFbXB0eU1hcGkiOnRydWUsIlYiOiIwLjAuMDAwMCIsIlAiOiJXaW4zMiIsIkFOIjoiTWFpbCIsIldUIjoyfQ%3D%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=WBmuU4NBpSBDmuqG2x%2BizRoH7RExT%2Bw1wHE3cdxdFBY%3D&reserved=0)

The Borough
-- [https://www.theboroughlancaster.co.uk/](https://emea01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.theboroughlancaster.co.uk%2F&data=05%7C02%7C%7C68269a984c0f4f4d7dce08dd88af8cc4%7C84df9e7fe9f640afb435aaaaaaaaaaaa%7C1%7C0%7C638817009746166042%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJFbXB0eU1hcGkiOnRydWUsIlYiOiIwLjAuMDAwMCIsIlAiOiJXaW4zMiIsIkFOIjoiTWFpbCIsIldUIjoyfQ%3D%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=CdCnpOTz304unUNmWiYT8xOrc0T7DufDtP62Mfy%2FxPk%3D&reserved=0)

Domain
-- [https://domainboutiquestays.com/](https://emea01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fdomainboutiquestays.com%2F&data=05%7C02%7C%7C68269a984c0f4f4d7dce08dd88af8cc4%7C84df9e7fe9f640afb435aaaaaaaaaaaa%7C1%7C0%7C638817009746178211%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJFbXB0eU1hcGkiOnRydWUsIlYiOiIwLjAuMDAwMCIsIlAiOiJXaW4zMiIsIkFOIjoiTWFpbCIsIldUIjoyfQ%3D%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=HvKDZvTYW9dwzZDalwD5tn1KD3n%2FgqZByZKKftDfTKw%3D&reserved=0)

Go2 Hotels
- [https://www.go2hotels.com/](https://emea01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.go2hotels.com%2F&data=05%7C02%7C%7C68269a984c0f4f4d7dce08dd88af8cc4%7C84df9e7fe9f640afb435aaaaaaaaaaaa%7C1%7C0%7C638817009746201289%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJFbXB0eU1hcGkiOnRydWUsIlYiOiIwLjAuMDAwMCIsIlAiOiJXaW4zMiIsIkFOIjoiTWFpbCIsIldUIjoyfQ%3D%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=hY%2FDm%2F4cHdKj8hXREHiLzituIs%2FELwaurvT%2BOKQwkgE%3D&reserved=0)

**Small print**

**Parental responsibility**

Parents are responsible for their children during the congress, the
congress organisers and arbiters are not to act as "in loco parents" and
are not able to take responsibility for any child's actions. Or for the
actions of anyone that may affect your child. Parents may not speak to
their children during their child's game, or vice versa, without
approaching the arbiters first.

**Other conditions**

Eligibility for grade-restricted sections is determined by the published
July ECF or FIDE grading list. This means that which section you enter
may be changed by the organisers if your grade changes between the date
of entry and the release of the July ratings. Players' ECF or FIDE
ratings from the August 2024 list will be used for determining
tournament pairings, and grading prizes.

All sections are ECF and FIDE graded. The following priority is used for
section allocation and seeding in the Standard Play event.

- ECF Standard Play Grade

- FIDE Standard Play Rating

- ECF Rapid Play Grade

- FIDE Rapid Play Grade

- ECF on-line Standard Play Grade

- FIDE on-line Standard Play Grade

- ECF on-line Rapid Play Grade

Players without a current grade should use any grading previously held
from the on-line ECF or FIDE database and provide the link from the
site. This may be accepted as their grading subject to approval by the
Chief Arbiter. Provisional grades may be used subject to decision by the
Chief Arbiter.

Ungraded players are not eligible for a grading prize.

Ungraded players can only win up to £50 for the major, intermediate or
minor events. Any unallocated prize money in either event will be
allocated to the runner up assuming they are graded.

A player qualifying for two prizes receives only the higher of the two
prizes. We may make an exception for some additional prizes that are
subject to sponsorship. If this happens we will update the information
on this website.. Prize money is subject to change depending on number
of entrants.

In the event of a tie for grading prize, the prize is awarded to the
lowest graded player.

Swiss manager dictates the pairings in all rounds and they are not
changed to suit individual preferences.

Cancellations -- in the event that a player is unable to attend there
will be no refund for cancellations after 30 June but please let the
organiser know so pairings can be rearranged. No refunds for non UK
entrants.

Byes -- entrants may take one half point bye in rounds 1-4. The bye may
not be taken in the last round.

The Open and Major sections will use duplicate score sheets. Both
players must give the top copies to the organisers and sign each of them
to confirm the result. The top copies remain the property of the
congress.

Cars parked anywhere are done so entirely at the owners own risk.

**BY ENTERING, PLAYERS AGREE THAT IN THE EVENT OF ANY DISPUTE, THE
ARBITER'S DECISION IS FINAL.**

**How to find the venue**

**By road:**

Find a parking space in the city centre and walk to the venue.
Alternatively park at your accommodation and either walk or (for the
student accommodation) the 100 bus to Common Garden Street and walk from
there to the venue is an alternative option.

**By rail:**

Lancaster is on the main west coast rail line from London to Glasgow and
has direct links to Manchester Airport. The Storey is 5 minutes walk
away.
