**Fourth Lancaster Rapid Play Congress Saturday 18 January 2025 – Prize
Fund £1,000 (subject to entries)**

**Venue – The Centre, St Thomas Church, Marton St, Lancaster LA1 1XX**

Contact: Richard Walsh, Congress Director - Email
– [<u>richardsami@hotmail.co.uk</u>](mailto:richardsami@hotmail.co.uk)

**Sections, prizes and timings**

-   Open – First £130, second £70. Grading prize £50 U2100

-   Major - U1900 First £130, second £70. Grading prize £50 U1800

-   Intermediate – U1750 First £130, second £70, Grading prize £50 U1620

-   Minor First U1500 £130, second £70. Grading prize £50 U1300

-   Those without an ECF or FIDE rating can win a maximum of £50 except
    in the Open and are not eligible for grading prizes

**Schedule**

-   6 rounds. ECF rated

-   20 minutes each plus 10 second increments

-   Opening of congress – 9.45 am

-   Round 1 – 10 am

-   Round 2 – 11.15

-   Round 3 – 12.30

-   Round 4 – 14.00

-   Round 5 – 15.15

-   Round 6 – 16.30

-   Prizes and close 17.30

FIDE rapid play rules on time penalties for illegal moves etc will
apply. **Capacity up to 110 entrants.** Arbiter decisions are final and
by entering this congress you will be bound by this.

-   Chief Arbiter – Hambel Willow

-   Assistant Arbiter – Peter Mulleady

**How to enter**

Entry cost £25 per person for platinum and gold ECF members + £15 ECF
fee for bronze or non ECF members. Bank transfer entry only. Entries
received after 14 January, if accepted, will require £5 late entry fee.
Entries are not accepted on the day. Please pay £25 or £40 by direct
transfer to the Lancaster Chess Club Account (plus late entry fee if
appropriate).

-   sort code 40-03-33

<!-- -->

-   account number 82357054

Include your initials and surname as a reference so we can match your
payment to your entry.

**After payment, please send the following in an email to Richard
Walsh** [<u>richardsami@hotmail.co.uk</u>](mailto:richardsami@hotmail.co.uk):

**ECF Graded players**

Go to the ECF database ecfrating.org.uk and find your details. Click on
your ECF Code. Forward a link to this
to [<u>richardsami@hotmail.co.uk</u>](mailto:richardsami@hotmail.co.uk) together
with which section you wish to enter (open, major, intermediate or
minor) and your name and rating. Use the priority list below to
determine your grade.

Note – if you do not do this you will be treated as an ungraded player
unless we can track your details in some other way.

If you would like to take a half point bye in the first round please let
Richard know in your entry e-mail. We are not accepting byes in any
other rounds.

**Ungraded players**

Please
email [<u>richardsami@hotmail.co.uk</u>](mailto:richardsami@hotmail.co.uk) the
following information:

-   First Name

-   Second Name

-   Sex

-   Date of Birth

-   Club if any

-   Screen shots of chess.com and lichess ratings charts

Note juniors can get free gold membership but they need to get this
before they enter to avoid paying the extra £15.

The following priority is used for section allocation and seeding.

-   ECF Rapid Play Grade

-   FIDE Rapid Play Rating

-   ECF Standard Play Grade

-   FIDE Standard Play Grade

-   Chess.com or Lichess at the organisers’ discretion

**Eligibility for grade-restricted sections is determined by the ECF
December grading list.**

**Grading prizes and pairings will be decided using the ECF January
grading list.**

**Entries so far can be found by clicking on this link**

 [Chess-Results Server Chess-results.com - Lancaster Rapidplay
2025](https://emea01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fchess-results.com%2Ftnr1034540.aspx%3Flan%3D1%26art%3D0%26turdet%3DYES&data=05%7C02%7C%7Cfaa265954feb4929d09a08dcead9621c%7C84df9e7fe9f640afb435aaaaaaaaaaaa%7C1%7C0%7C638643466566704051%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C0%7C%7C%7C&sdata=SmqMulxaqBq9Vh31yeyq%2FuFda45knc9C6%2BXI9tR8w7A%3D&reserved=0)

There may be a chess stall in the analysis room selling books etc.

**Small Print**

A player qualifying for two prizes receives only the higher of the two
prizes. Prize money is subject to change depending on number of
entrants. In the event of a tie for grading prize, the prize is awarded
to the lowest graded player. Swiss manager dictates the pairings in all
rounds and they are not changed to suit individual preferences.
Cancellations – in the event that a player is unable to attend there
will be no refund if the withdrawal is made after 1 December 2024, but
please let the organiser know so pairings can be rearranged. A half
point bye may only be taken in round 1. If you wish to take this up
please let the congress organiser know when you enter.

**How to find the venue**

The venue (The Centre) is just behind the main church building in the
centre of Lancaster. Teas and coffees on a self-service basis will be
available. There are lots of places to buy food and drink within a very
short walking distance.

**Getting there by rail or bus**

The venue is 10-15 minutes walk from the railway station. Leave the
station and walk up to the main road. Turn left and walk towards the
city centre. Cross over at the T junction. Turn right. Carry on until
you reach Common Garden St where the buses stop. Turn left down the
street and turn right at Penny Street. Walk up the hill until you reach
St Thomas church and turn left down Marton Street – the Centre is on the
right hand side.

There are plenty of buses to Lancaster. Many stop at Common Garden
Street. All other buses stop at the main bus station which is 10 minutes
walk to the venue.

**Getting there by car and parking**

**From the North**

Leave M6 at J34. Turn onto the A683 and travel towards Lancaster for 1.5
miles joining the one-way system at the traffic lights. Choose the right
hand lane and continue for approximately half a mile. Keep going past
Dalton Square (statue of Queen Victoria) signed Clitheroe. Go straight
up to the traffic lights bearing right and turn right. Bear right again
taking the right fork down Penny Street. Turn right at Marton Street
just after St Thomas Church and the venue and car park are on your right
hand side

**From the South**

Leave the M6 at J33. Travel towards Lancaster on the A6 North for
approximately 4 miles. When you go round the roundabout heading close to
the city be in the right hand lane as you pass Lancaster hospital. At
the traffic lights bear right and take the right fork down Penny Street.
Turn right at Marton Street just after St Thomas Church and the venue
and car park are on your right hand side

**Parking**

There is a dedicated free parking area off Marton Street behind the
Centre accessed by a slip road. There are around 20 spaces there. The
code to access the car park will be 3173 on the day. First come first
served. Apart from that there are a number of parking areas in the
centre of Lancaster but all of them charge. If you travel south of the
city centre you will find free on street parking down side streets but
build in plenty of time to find a space and make your way to the venue.
